#On time connecting flights

Imagine that you are traveling from Denver to Boston on a Friday night. You can get to Denver airport after you are done with your work and still want to catch the last train when you arrive at Boston.  You search for a flight from a booking website and find multiple itineraries. You see an itinerary for a very cheap price. However, the plane stops in Chicago and the layover is only 1 hour. Moreover, connecting flights are by different carriers. Therefore you’re stuck with a dilemma: should you buy the ticket and save some money or risk missing your connecting flight and spend your precious Friday night at Chicago airport.  Hence, while at the Data Incubator, I want to develop a plugin for flight booking websites that tells you about likelihood of delays at a specific airport.
 
The plugin will be similar to that of kayak that advises you to buy or wait on plane tickets. My plugin will tell you about the likelihood of delays you will experience at the connecting airport. Depending on the information provided by the plugin a user will decide if he/she should buy the cheap ticket. The plugin will take the following inputs: connecting city, the airline taking you to connecting city, date and time of the flight. The plugin accesses the database of previous arrival flights of the airline at the connecting city. Based on the information available in the database, the plugin performs some statistics and plots a histogram of chance of delays distributed over 24 hours. After which the user can decide if he/she should risk buying the ticket.
The database that I have downloaded from the website of United States Department of Transportation has some data about the monthly (between the years 2003-2016) airline on-time statistics and delay causes. Since the data is collected monthly, for now I can only perform monthly statistics. 
Example: Suppose you have the following itinerary on 6th of September: Denver (DEN) – Chicago (ORD) with United and Chicago (ORD) – Boston (BOS) with Spirit. Results of the simulation of the prototype application is given in pictures. 

[[https://github.com/mirzaevinom/data_incubator/blob/master/yearly_histogram.png | alt= Monthly statistics by year]][[https://github.com/mirzaevinom/data_incubator/blob/master/monthly_plot.png | alt= Yearly statistics by month]]

   
The user would observe that September is safest month for connecting flights through Chicago with United Airlines. Moreover, yearly plot on the right shows that United Airlines have decreased their flight delays in Septembers. Hence, for this hypothetical scenario, the user would confidently buy the cheap airplane ticket that he/she found.
The plugin can be improved in many ways. First hourly flight statistics database is necessary, so that the user can see hourly statistics. Currently, the plugin accounts for general types of delays. Given that monthly weather forecast details are available, the plugin can be made more specific accounting for weather dependent delays.
